.TH "smsd" "8" "September 27, 2010" "" "Gnokii"
.SH "NAME"
smsd \- daemon for handling incoming and outgoing SMSes using libgnokii
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B smsd \fI[OPTIONS]\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The
.B SMSD
(SMS daemon) program is intended for receiving and sending SMSes.

.PP
The program is designed to use modules (plugins) to work with different backends.
Currently are supported PostgreSQL, MySQL and a special module 'file' which is
designed to work without an SQL database (see below for special instructions
in the file module section). When \fBSMSD\fR uses an SQL server as a
repository for SMSes you must create a database (default name is 'sms') with
tables defined in sms.tables.{module}.sql files.

Table 'inbox' is for received SMSes. \fBSMSD\fR periodically checks a given
phone memory to move messages to this table.
Only received SMSes and status reports are deleted from the phone, other kinds
of messages are not removed.

.PP
Table 'inbox' has the following fields:

.RS
.TP
.B number
phone number from which is sms received
.TP
.B smsdate
date set by SMS center
.TP
.B insertdate
date SMS was inserted into table
.TP
.B text
SMS text
.TP
.B phone
number of phone to use. If you use smsd without -t option you can ignore
this column. See -t option below.
.TP
.B processed
smsd sets this always to FALSE. You can use it for another program which will parse SMSes.
.RE

.PP
Table 'outbox' is for outgoing SMSes. \fBSMSD\fR periodically looks into this table
and searches for lines with attribute 'processed' set to FALSE. If it finds
such SMS, it will send SMS to 'number'.

.PP
Table 'outbox' has the following fields:

.RS
.TP
.B number
recipient's phone number

.TP
.B processed_date
date of processing SMS.

.TP
.B insertdate
date of inserting SMS in table

.TP
.B text
SMS text

.TP
.B phone
number of phone to use. If you use smsd without -t option you
must not fill this column. See -t option below.

.TP
.B processed
new SMS must have this attribute set to FALSE. \fBSMSD\fR will send this SMS and will update 'processed' to TRUE.

.TP
.B error
This attribute contains return value of gn_sms_send() function. For explanation of numeric values see <gnokii/error.h> in gnokii source.

.TP
.B dreport
request for delivery report per message. Possible values are 0 for no delivery report, 1 for delivery report.

.TP
.B not_before
sms will not be sent before this time (default 00:00:00).

.TP
.B not_after
sms will not be sent after this time (default 23:59:59).
.RE
.PP
\fBSMSD\fR is multi threaded program. If you list processes you will see more than
one instance of smsd.

.SS
THE FILE MODULE
.PP
This module doesn't need an SQL server to work. For incoming messages it
works in a way that it calls a program giving phone number, date as parameter
and the message text on stdin. In the smsd directory there is an example file
action. It shows sms data to stdout. If you want something useful you must
write your own action.
.BR
For outgoing messages you can set spool directory where smsd looks
regularly.

.PP
Incoming sms are passed in format
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.BR action\ number\ date\ <\ sms
.PD
.RE

.PP
Outgoing sms must be in format:
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B number
.TP
.B text
.PD
.RE

.PP
The name of file is unimportant but smsd ignores all files with prefix
"ERR.". If smsd succesfully sends sms, it removes file from spool directory.
If smsd cannot send sms prepends file with "ERR." prefix and ignores it.
If you use \fI-m file\fR, \fI-u\fR (\fI--user\fR) and \fI-c\fR (\fI--host\fR) will have other meaning.
\fI-u\fR is for action (action must be executable)
\fI-c\fR is for spool directory where smsd looks for smses. Smsd must have read
and write permissions to this directory.

.PP
\fI-p\fR, \fI-d\fR parameters have no meaning when \fI-m file\fR is used.

.PP
If you don't specify \fI-u\fR, default action is to print sms to stdout.
If you don't specify \fI-c\fR, sms sending will be disabled.

.SS OPTIONS
.PP
Available options:
.TP
.BR -u,\ --user\ db_username
Specify user name.

.TP
.BR -p,\ --password\ db_password
Specify user password.

.TP
.BR -d,\ --db\ db_name
Specify database name for 'pq' and 'mysql' modules or full path to database file for 'sqlite' module (defaults to 'sms').

.TP
.BR -c,\ --host\ db_hostname
Specify database server host name.

.TP
.BR -s,\ --schema\ db_hostname
Specify database schema used by the PostgreSQL module (defaults to 'public').

.TP
.BR -m,\ --module\ db_module
Specify which module to use for connection to DB server. Currently supported values are 'pq' for PostgreSQL, 'mysql' for MySQL, 'sqlite' for SQLite3 and 'file'. File module is not supported in Windows.

.TP
.BR -l,\ --libdir\ path_to_db_module
Specify path to DB modules. If you specify pq module, smsd searches in libdir for file libsmsd_pq.so (for mysql - libsmsd_mysql.so).
Do not interchange these plugins with default SQL libraries from database distribution!

.TP
.BR -f,\ --logfile\ file
If used, smsd will monitor sms traffic to file "file". File is
reopened and closed for every message so you can simply rename or
delete it if you want to rotate logs. If you use '-' as filename smsd
will use standard output.

.TP
.BR -t,\ --phone\ phone_number
You can run more instances of smsd. One instance per phone. In this
setup you must configure phone section in the config file. For example:

.PD 0
.RS
[global]
.P
port = /dev/ttyS0
.P
model = 6110
.P
initlength = default
.P
connection = serial
.P
bindir = /usr/local/sbin/
.P
use_locking = no
.P
serial_baudrate = 38400
.P
smsc_timeout = 10
.P

[phone_1]
.P
port = /dev/ttyS0
.P
model = 6110
.P
initlength = default
.P
connection = serial
.P
bindir = /usr/local/sbin/
.P
use_locking = no
.P
serial_baudrate = 38400
.P

[phone_2]
.P
port = /dev/ttyS1
.P
model = AT
.P
initlength = default
.P
connection = serial
.P
bindir = /usr/local/sbin/
.P
use_locking = no
.P
serial_baudrate = 38400
.P
smsc_timeout = 10
.PD

In this setup if you run smsd without -t option it will use config
from global section. If you run smsd with -t 1 it will use config
from phone_1 and likewise with -t 2 uses phone_2. In case of use -t
option smsd fills phone number for incoming sms's and in outbox it
looks only for sms's with the specified phone number in column
\&'phone'. This behaviour gives you possibility to run one instance
of smsd for every phone you have at the same time.
.RE

.TP
.BR -i,\ --interval\ interval
Polling interval for incoming sms's in seconds. Default is 1 second.

.TP
.BR -S,\ --maxsms\ number
When phone driver doesn't support sms status it is possible to specify
number of sms's supported by phone. Default is 10. If driver support
sms status this option is ignored.

.TP
.BR -b,\ --inbox\ memory_type
Where to look for new messages (defaults to IN for most Nokia phones and to
SM for all other phones).
For debugging or for unusual setups you can use another memory type
supported by your phone (eg. IN for the Inbox, OU for the Outbox, AR for the
Archive, TE for the Templates and F1,...,F20 for your own folders).
Use gnokii --showsmsfolderstatus for a list of such memory types.

.TP
.BR -0,\ --firstpos0
SMSD starts messages reading from position 1. If your phone stores sms's 
from postion 0, use this option.

.TP
.BR -v,\ --version
Shows smsd version.

.TP
.BR -h,\ --help
Shows short help.

.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Various error messages are printed to STDERR.

Debug output can be enabled setting xdebug=on (for messages specific to \fBSMSD\fR)
and debug=on (for messages specific to \fBlibgnokii\fR) in the configuration file.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP 
None reported.

.SH "AUTHOR"
\fBSMSD\fR was written by Jan Derfinak and contributed by other people.
See also Docs/CREDITS from the Gnokii sources.

.SH "COPYING"
This program is distributed under the GNU Public License.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
gnokii(1)
