.TH "gnokiid" "8" "May 27, 2001" "Erik Rossen" "gnokii"
.SH "NAME"
gnokiid \- create a virtual modem for old Nokia mobile phones
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B gnokiid

.B gnokiid
[\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR|\fB\-\-debug\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.B gnokiid

is a tool from the gnokii tool suite used to create a virtual modem device
with a Nokia portable telephone.  The virtual modem device is usually
accessed via a symbolic link called /dev/gnokii (created automatically by
\fBmgnokiidev\fR(8)). Please note that you don't need a virtual modem when
you have real modem accepting AT Hayes commands (most of the modern
phones). gnokiid was written for the phones that supported data transfer
but didn't expose AT layer (namely Nokia 6110, 6130, 6150, 5110, 5130).

.PP 
After 
.B gnokiid
has created the virtual modem, it can be accessed like any other Hayes\-compatible modem by such programs as the terminal program \fBminicom\fR(1) or the PPP daemon \fBpppd\fR(8) to make standard data connections to remote computers.

.PP 
The full range of portable telephone functions (SMS messaging, phone book, operator logos, etc.) are accessed using the command\-line program \fBgnokii\fR(1) or the graphical interface program \fBxgnokii\fR(1x).


.PP 
gnokii
is a Linux/Unix tool suite and (eventually) modem/fax driver for Nokia mobile phones, released under the GPL.
.PP 
gnokii
supports most phones from the 3810/8110 and 5110/6110 series, details including bugs specific to each series appear in the files Docs/README\-3810 and Docs/README\-6110 respectively.  

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP 
If called without any options, \fBgnokiid\fR will set up a virtual modem device using the settings in gnokii(1) config file (if it exists).  Otherwise,
.TP 
\fB\-\-help\fR
print out a short usage message
.TP 
\fB\-\-version\fR
print out version, copyright, phone, and serial device info
.TP 
\fB\-\-debug\fR
uses STDIN/STDOUT for a virtual modem
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Various error messages are printed to STDERR.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP 
Hmmm...


.SH "AUTHOR"
Hugh Blemings <hugh at blemings dot org> and Pavel Janik ml. <Pavel.Janik at suse dot cz> are the authors of the
gnokii tool suite.

This manual page was written by Erik Rossen <rossen at freesurf dot ch>.

See also Docs/CREDITS from the gnokii sources.
.SH "COPYING"
This program is distributed under the GNU Public License Version 2, or (at your option) any later version..

.SH "SEE ALSO"
gnokii, xgnokii, mgnokiidev
