.TH "sendsms" "1" "August 29, 2003" "Pawel Kot" "gnokii"
.SH "NAME"
sendsms \- command line tool to send SMSes using gnokii
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B sendsms \fI[OPTIONS]\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.B sendsms
allows you to send a SMS using gnokii not knowing the syntax of gnokii
command. It is written using dialog and allows to send a text SMS choosing
recipients from the phone address book or entering it manually.

.SS "OPTIONS"
.PP 
Available options:
.TP
.BR [\-\-debug|\-D]
May bother with more debugging messages. For debugging purpose.
.TP
.BR --simul[ate],\ -S
Simulation mode. Doesn't really send SMS by phone. Only simulates. For debugging purpose.
.TP
.BR  --forceSMread,\ -s
Forces
.B sendsms
to read phonebook from SIM card,
and to parse the generated file in order to update
the numbers' list (useful only if required to pickup
number from the phone's memory). See NOTE.
.TP
.BR  --forceMEread,\ -m
Forces
.B sendsms
to read phonebook from phone memory,
and to parse the generated file in order to update
the numbers' list (useful only if required to pickup
number from the phone's memory). See NOTE.
.TP
.BR --skipgnokiicheck,\ -K
Skip the test of the presence of binary 'gnokii'. (It must be somewhere in your $PATH).
It allows you to try this script program, even if you don't have 'gnokii' already. ;)
.TP
.BR --smsset,\ --setsms
Allows you to preset a SMS message from STDIN. (pipe or input redirection).
This message will be proposed on the 'SMS message' field during the program input cycle.
.TP
.BR --help,\ -h,\ /h
display this help and exit
.TP
.BR --version,\ -V
output version information and exit"
.TP
NOTE:
If you require to pickup number from phone's memory (or from SIM card),
for the first time, it anyway reads phonebook from your mobile phone.
(It may take a while... please, be patient ;-)

.SH "BUGS"
.PP 
None reported.


.SH "AUTHOR"
Sendsms was written by Gabriele Zappi - Rimini <gzappi@inwind.it>.

This manual page was written by Pawel Kot.

.SH "COPYING"
This program is distributed under the GNU Public License.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
gnokii
